In this video.
We're going to learn about this energy assertions and what is the difference between hard assault and
soft assault?
What is assertions?
You know that in or best case is complete without assertions.
Because at the end of the test case, we need assertions of what is expected value and what is the actual
value.
On the basis of that we can involve which test is is passed and which discourse is free.
So that's why assertions are very important.
Part of writing any test is let us say this test gives a mention here in this we have and it does assert
not assert equals there we are launching this Google dot com and comparing the title with this Google.
So in this case, the test case didn't fail that because the expected will be Google.
But so the expected will be this Google and the actual value will be this billing.
So in this case, you'll get an exception drawn, which will show what is the expected value and what
is the actual value.
So this is how the assertions will.
So you write of this steps and then you assert what is the expected value of that?
This is to qualify it as a pass.
So some assert equals which we have seen in that example.
There are some more commonly used assertions which is used very widely.
So these are all like assert equals which we have seen comparing the strings then of assert equals comparing
the string with the message.
If if the test case fails, then it shows this message.
Then that is boolean.
The expected boolean value is expected to be true or expected to be false.
And what is the actual?
We are getting it then we have.
We can measure utils.
So actual utils, that is the that is the collection types.
So to collection orders we can match.
And if the task is failing, then we get in the message, then we can afford it.
As a true the condition should be true, then the discourse will pass.
We can ascertain the true with condition and the message to be displayed.
Then the discourse claims as it falls is asserting the condition is to for then in the in this case
the expected condition is false.
In this case, the condition is expected to be false.
And if the disk is passed so that if the disk is fail, then it will display this message.
Let's see what is hard effort.
Hard effort is also a type of this energy assertion which draws an exception immediately if the assert
statement says and move on to the next test.
So in this case, if there is any good written in the current state or test case after that effort statement,
it will not execute that statement.
So if you see the previous example of Google.
Let us see that.
So in this example, if there is some code written after this third statement, it will not execute
that school.
It will just move on to the next discus if available or otherwise, it will stop execution.
Now let us see what is soft effort.
Sort to deal with the disadvantage of hard assertions.
We have a customized error handling provided by test engine, which is called a soft assertion.
So we have seen that the test and test in jihad assert execution will stop the test case once the assertion
statement fails.
So this is usually used in artistic by multiple assertions.
So in this case, what will happen is it will record the session values, but the all the results are
calculated at the end.
So we will see example of both hard and soft assert.
See the example of heart assault in the heart.
A third girl.
Focus on this one.
In this, there aren't multiple other statements in this test case.
And the first test is it says a third two that five is less than one in, so it will return false value.
So this test gives this assertion one thing and hence the next.
The statement in the court did not get executed because this is the hardest.
So in this case, whenever the assertion statement fails, the execution stops between and the execution
flow moves on to the next desk.
So this to address this issue, we use soft effort.
So let us see how we can address this issue in soft asset.
To answer this test case, we are creating object of this class of acid and are using this object to
add the assertions method.
So in this we're asserting this.
This disk is will see it will record in this that the disk is has failed.
It will move on to the next asset statement.
Then it will record that this this is a this also fields then it will record that this also fills and
then then at the end it will do assert or is then it will calculate all the results together.
So this is how the of effort bulk and in this is all the session statement inside the one this piece
can be executed one by one, even though the Excel statements are failing.